Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends in Vietnam! Dear
Dharma friends,
as the Buddha's birthday approaches, I
have received several questions
related to the Buddha's birthday celebration.
Upon reading
these questions, one particular question concerns why such a large
celebration should be organized. The
question is as follows: "I am a
member of the Youth Club. I
see that every year Ba Vang Pagoda organizes a
very large Buddha's birthday celebration. I would like to ask you
what the
significance of such a large celebration is,
and what blessings are bestowed upon those who participate
and rejoice in its organization.
Thank you."
Respectfully, dear Dharma friends, at
Ba Vang Pagoda, every year the monks and
Buddhist followers make great efforts
in organizing the grand Buddha's birthday celebration. It is said
that Ba Vang Pagoda organizes
such a large celebration. But in reality, regarding
the hearts of the monks and the hearts
of the Buddhist followers...  It still doesn't seem
satisfactory, not grand enough. If we have
the opportunity and resources, we should organize a
large-scale celebration like in
other countries. Other countries organize very large Buddha's Birthday celebrations. We
say we organize it in Vietnam,
but we haven't seen a
large-scale celebration like those abroad.
Looking at Japan, their Buddha's Birthday celebration
is incredibly grand,
almost
filling the streets. The spirit of
Buddha's Birthday is
immense. The processions, the
participation of government officials, and the entire population – it's on a scale
even larger than National Day. It's
very grand, very impressive, and
the people stand in the streets singing,
chanting, and having a lot of fun. That's how it is.
In Japan, they organize
large celebrations, in Thailand,
and in some other Buddhist countries.
In Vietnam,
sometimes we also have
very large celebrations, for example...
The organization of the Buddha's birthday celebration in Nghia To district
is very large, and the one at Ba Vang Pagoda is
also very large,
but compared to my aspirations,
it's still considered small. My heartfelt
wish is to have the
opportunity to contribute my
efforts to a
large-scale celebration of the Buddha's birth. I
also hope to
witness this in my country, to have a
truly magnificent celebration of the Buddha's birth,
befitting what the Buddha has
brought to sentient beings and humanity. As for
the meaning behind organizing
such a large Buddha's birthday celebration,
it
has two basic meanings. Firstly, it
signifies that
we see the birth of the Buddha
in this earthly realm.
It's a rare and auspicious event that
brings immense happiness to
all beings, to see the
birth of the Buddha as a blessing.  Therefore, we
see this birth as extremely precious, something
we must praise and
remember, because the birth of this
Buddha is unique, not unique.
In the lifetimes
of the Buddha, in the few periods of sentient beings' lives,
only one true and
perfect being is born. After
proclaiming the Dharma to save all
sentient beings from suffering, only after a long time will
another be born. That is, the
birth is very rare.
He brings immense benefit, so
we see his birth as extremely
precious. Therefore, we rejoice and celebrate for
eight months
the birth of the
Buddha's teachings, and we
organize a very large celebration.
For example,
anything that brings
us joy and happiness,
like in a country, the birthday of
President Ho Chi Minh, the whole country of Vietnam rejoices,
and everywhere
celebrates President Ho Chi Minh's birthday on
May 19th. The Vietnamese people are very
happy because of the birth of President Ho Chi
Minh.  It can be said that the beginning of the end of
slavery for the Vietnamese people,
from the year
45 onwards, and the period we
are enjoying, is marked by the birth of the
Buddha
over 2000 years ago. This has brought
enlightenment to many beings,
liberated many, and deeply
ingrained his teachings,
abandoning evil and doing good, making the world a beautiful and
vibrant place. The
value of the
Buddha's birth is
immense, so no matter
how grand the commemoration, it is still
not worthy of its significance. On
one hand, the benefits brought by his birth are
immense for the president, and on the other hand, within our families, a birthday celebration is a joy
for the whole family. See?
This is the
birth of the Buddha, bringing happiness
to humanity, so
all enlightened beings on this planet celebrate it.  The
Buddha's birthday is a big celebration, so the larger the number of people
celebrating, the bigger the celebration becomes,
right? It's like when one person is
happy, the joy spreads
smallly; when many people are happy, the joy
spreads greatly. Therefore, the organization of the
Buddha's birthday celebration is due to karmic causes and conditions,
not something anyone can decide arbitrarily.
What are those karmic causes and conditions?
They are the factors from the birth of the Buddha, bringing
great happiness to humanity, and the
enlightenment of humanity.
Through the Buddha's teachings, the
celebration will grow larger and larger. The more
enlightened humanity becomes,
the bigger the celebration will be. That is the cause and effect. The
cause is that the birth brings
benefit and happiness to sentient beings. The effect is that
many people are enlightened, and the result is that many people
rejoice, are grateful, and praise the birth of
the Buddha. Therefore, the result
will be a large and solemn celebration,
not based on anyone's personal opinion.
Organizing a
large, elaborate Buddha's Birthday celebration, with all the necessary conditions and
karmic connections, is inherently a
grand event. No one can disrupt or
interfere with it.
This applies to the Vietnamese people, not just
Ba Vang Pagoda. A large celebration, with many
enlightened individuals, is essential. Wherever there is a large gathering of
people, wherever there is a concentration of
grateful hearts, the Buddha's Birthday celebration is grand and magnificent, encompassing all the necessary conditions and karmic connections of reverence and gratitude. The
large scale of the Buddha's Birthday celebration is due to the convergence of reverence
and gratitude upon enlightenment.
Because all the necessary
conditions are met, the celebration must be grand and complete.
No one can say it should
be small, because even just the
joyful hearts of hundreds of thousands of Buddhists, dressed in
beautiful clothes, are enough to make it happen.  Welcome! It's already a big event,
isn't it? It's just like that, it does
n't need anything yet. Now,
everyone wants a little more. Yes,
then it will become a grand ceremony, so
it will be complete. Oh, that's the
heart of reverence and gratitude.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, that's
why it's organized on such a large scale. What is
the meaning of organizing such a large Buddha's Birthday ceremony?
I
have the meaning that the
bigger the Buddha's Birthday ceremony, the more it proves that
many people are enlightened in the Buddha's teachings, and the more
people are grateful to the Buddha. I am grateful for
his birth.
That's the meaning, and there's another profound meaning: the merit of
propagating the Dharma by the
Buddha's followers. The greater the merit of
propagating the
Dharma, the bigger, more grand, and more
magnificent the ceremony becomes. Why? Because in the sutra of
karmic causes and conditions for propagating the Dharma, there is a karmic connection
that connects sentient beings to the Buddha's teachings.
If anyone sees this Buddha's Birthday ceremony and
just starts with a sincere heart, if they start with a sincere
heart for eight months, they will have a good karmic connection.  In
Buddhism, if one sincerely contemplates the
birth of the Buddha, they will receive blessings in this life.
Another cause for liberation is negative karma; if they criticize,
their minds will still be affected by the
Buddha's birth. According to Buddhist teachings,
anyone whose mind is moved by the Buddha's teachings,
anyone who is moved by all the teachings
within the Buddhist community, will
have a karmic connection with the Buddha.
This is a meaning within the
meaning of saving sentient beings, the meaning of propagating the Dharma, the meaning of
connecting sentient beings with the Buddha's teachings.
Yes, in Buddhism, all things
are the Buddha's teachings. Why? Because if all
sentient beings—
just by having a sincere mind—are
already connected to the Buddha's teachings, they will have the karmic connection to be saved. They will
either be saved by a disciple of the Buddha, or by a future Buddha, or by a
disciple of a future Buddha.
If sentient beings have a karmic connection with the Buddha's teachings, whether good or bad, they will be saved in due course.
Only those sentient
beings who lack the karmic connection with the Buddha's teachings have
not yet had the opportunity to be saved. That is why we
organize the Buddha's birthday celebration.  Its greatness also
arises from the karmic connection, the vow to save sentient beings, the
four assemblies of beings.
That song has a lofty meaning,
and the beat
will make the Buddha's birthday celebration
even greater. So, that's the
meaning of the Buddha's birthday celebration; it signifies the convergence of karmic connections, the enlightenment of
sentient beings, and the connection of Buddhist teachings
with sentient beings, bringing them
lasting happiness.
As for those who organize the Buddha's birthday celebration,
they receive
blessings because they have past karmic connections
with Buddhism, so they are
grateful to the Buddha. They
also have another meritorious meaning: they
have the karmic connection to achieve liberation and connect
sentient beings with
Buddhist teachings. This benefits those
who participate, and
those who praise it, showing that they receive blessings in this life and
many future lives, and they will also receive
blessings and practice in
Buddhism, experiencing happiness and peace, leading to
enlightenment and
achieving supreme Bodhi.
This is the whole meaning of why
we should organize a grand Buddha's Birthday celebration: it's
for our benefit and the benefit of all
sentient beings. We need to organize a
grand Buddha's Birthday celebration, and the success of this celebration is due to the interconnected karmic causes and
effects of the merits of the Buddha.
Through this, I, the enlightened mind, hope
that we
will diligently cultivate the Bodhi mind. The greater our gratitude towards the Buddha, the more I want the Dharma to be propagated, and the more karmic causes arise, the more successful and magnificent the Buddha's Birthday celebration will be.
[Music]